= Warning

Buildr-bnd has been integrated into buildr 1.4.5 and will be deprecated 
once the 1.4.5 version of buildr is released.

= buildr-bnd

This is a Buildr extension for packaging OSGi bundles using Bnd (See
http://www.aqute.biz/Code/Bnd). The extension allows the user to define
properties/directives to be supplied to the Bnd tool and provides
reasonable defaults for those that can be derived from the project
model. Please see the bnd tool for documentation on the available
properties.

The 'bnd' setting is used to provide directives to the bnd tool that
are not inherited by subprojects while the standard 'manifest' setting is
used to define properties that inherited by subprojects.

A typical project that uses the extension may look something like;

  define 'myProject' do
    ...
    package(:bundle).tap do |bnd|
      bnd['Import-Package'] = "*;resolution:=optional"
      bnd['Export-Package'] = "*;version=#{version}"
    end
    ...
  end

== Installation

The extension is packaged as a gem named "buildr-iidea", consult the ruby gems installation
steps but typically it is either

  sudo gem install buildr-bnd

for MRI ruby or

  jgem install buildr-bnd

for jruby.

The user then needs to add the following require into the build file:

  require 'buildr_bnd'

If the local maven repository does not contain the required bnd jars they can be downloaded
but you will need to register the remote repository by adding the following to the build file:

repositories.remote << Buildr::Bnd.remote_repository

== Defaults

The extension sets the following bnd parameters;

* <tt>"Bundle-Version"</tt> defaults to the project version.
* <tt>"Bundle-SymbolicName"</tt> defaults to the concatenation of the project group
  and project id, replacing ':' characters with '.'.
* <tt>"Bundle-Name"</tt> defaults to the project description if present else the project
  name
* <tt>"Bundle-Description"</tt> defaults to the project description.
* <tt>"-classpath"</tt> is set to the compile target directory and any compile time
  dependencies.
* <tt>"Include-Resource"</tt> defaults to the dir project.resources.target if it exists.

== Parameters

=== classpath_element

The user can also specify additional elements that are added to the classpath
using the 'classpath_element' method. If the parameter to this element is a
task, artifact, artifact namespace etc. then it will be resolved prior to invoking
bnd.

  define 'foo' do
    ...
    package(:bundle).tap do |bnd|
      # This dependency will be added to classpath
      bnd.classpath_element 'someOtherExistingFile.zip'
      # All of these dependencies will be invoked and added to classpath 
      bnd.classpath_element artifact('com.sun.messaging.mq:imq:jar:4.4')
      bnd.classpath_element project('bar') # Adds all the packages
      bnd.classpath_element 'org.apache.ant:ant:jar:1.8.0'
      bnd.classpath_element file('myLocalFile.jar')
      ...
    end

    project 'bar' do
      ...
    end
  end

=== classpath

The user can specify the complete classpath using the 'classpath' method. The classpath
should be an array of elements. If the element is a task, artifact, artifact namespace etc.
then it will be resolved prior to invoking bnd. 

  define 'foo' do
    ...
    package(:bundle).tap do |bnd|
      bnd.classpath [ project.compile.target,
                      'someOtherExistingFile.zip',
                      artifact('com.sun.messaging.mq:imq:jar:4.4'),
                      project('bar'),
                      'org.apache.ant:ant:jar:1.8.0',
                      file('myLocalFile.jar') ]
      ...
    end

    project 'bar' do
      ...
    end
  end


== Examples

=== Including non-class resources in a bundle

Bnd can be used to include non-class resources in a bundle. The following
example includes all resources in 'src/etc' into the bundle.

  require 'buildr_bnd'

  desc 'Including resources example'
  define 'myproject' do
    ...
    package(:bundle).tap do |bnd|
      bnd['Include-Resource'] = project._('src/etc') + '/'
      ...
    end
  end

=== Using bnd to wrap an existing jar

Bnd can be used to wrap an existing jar as an OSGi bundle. The following
example wraps the OpenMQ JMS provider as an OSGi bundle.

  require 'buildr_bnd'

  # Add repository for OpenMQ
  repositories.remote << 'http://download.java.net/maven/2'

  desc 'OSGi bundle for OpenMQ JMS provider client library'
  define 'com.sun.messaging.mq.imq' do
    project.version = '4.4'
    project.group = 'iris'
    package(:bundle).tap do |bnd|
      bnd['Import-Package'] = "*;resolution:=optional"
      bnd['Export-Package'] = "com.sun.messaging.*;version=#{version}"
      bnd.classpath_element 'com.sun.messaging.mq:imq:jar:4.4'
    end
  end

=== Create an OSGi bundle with an Activator

The following example presents a basic buildfile for building an OSGi bundle with
an activator.

  require 'buildr_bnd'

  # repository for OSGi core bundle
  repositories.remote << 'https://repository.apache.org/content/repositories/releases'

  desc 'Hello World bundle'
  define 'helloworld' do
    project.version = '1.0'
    project.group = 'org.example'
    compile.with 'org.apache.felix:org.osgi.core:jar:1.4.0'
    package(:bundle).tap do |bnd|
      bnd['Export-Package'] = "org.example.helloworld.api.*;version=#{version}"
      bnd['Bundle-Activator'] = "org.example.helloworld.Activator"
    end
  end

=== Inheriting parameters for bnd tool

The following example shows how you can use 'manifest' to define a bnd parameter that is inherited
to all child subprojects. The "Bundle-License" defined in the top level project is passed to the bnd
tool when generating both the 'fe' and 'fi' subprojects but the 'fo' subproject overrides this
parameter withy a local value.

  require 'buildr_bnd'

  define 'myproject' do
    manifest['Bundle-License'] = "http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0"
    ...
    define 'fe' do
      ...
      package(:bundle).tap do |bnd|
        ...
      end
    end

    define 'fi' do
      ...
      package(:bundle).tap do |bnd|
        ...
      end
    end

    define 'fo' do
      ...
      package(:bundle).tap do |bnd|
        bnd['Bundle-License'] = "http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-1.1"
      end
    end
  end

== Future Work

The following is a list of feature requests for future versions of the extension. Feel free to
jump in and supply a patch if you have gone ahead and implemented the feature.

=== Support Embed-Dependency equivalent

The maven-bundle-plugin supports Embed-Dependency which can include a jar inside the bundle,
add manifest directives to include it in the export calculations. One "Embed-Dependency"
directive may turn into something like

  -classpath=com.ibm.mq.jar
  Include-Resource=com.ibm.mq.jar
  Bundle-Classpath=.,com.ibm.mq.jar
  Private-Package=!*
  -exportcontents: com.ibm.mq.*

For further discussion on this see;
* http://www.mail-archive.com/users@felix.apache.org/msg06625.html
* http://www.mail-archive.com/users@felix.apache.org/msg06626.html

== Credit

The plugin was heavily inspired by the bnd tasks originally authored by Rhett Sutphin. It began
life as a fork but has been rewritten from scratch to use a different approach.
